README.md, before:

# SRE Platform - AI-Powered Incident Management

An incident.io and rootly.ai-inspired platform for incident management, AI-powered postmortems, and service runbooks.

## Features

- 🚨 **Incident Management** - Declare, track, and resolve incidents with real-time collaboration
- 🤖 **AI-Powered Postmortems** - Automatically generate comprehensive postmortems from incident data
- 🧠 **AI Knowledge Graph** - Get intelligent recommendations based on similar past incidents using Vertex AI embeddings
- 📚 **Service Runbooks** - Centralized repository of service documentation and troubleshooting procedures
- ⚡ **Real-time Updates** - WebSocket-powered live updates for incident timelines
- 🐳 **Fully Containerized** - All components run in Docker containers

## Architecture

The platform uses a **microservices architecture** with separate frontend and backend containers:

- **Frontend:** Next.js 14+ with TypeScript and Tailwind CSS (port 3000)
- **Backend API:** Express.js REST API (port 3001)
- **Database:** PostgreSQL (Alpine-based, port 5432)
- **Migrations:** Liquibase for version-controlled schema management
- **Real-time:** Socket.io WebSocket server (port 4000)
- **Storage:** MinIO (S3-compatible, optional, ports 9000/9001)
- **AI:** Anthropic Claude or Google Gemini for postmortem generation and analysis

## Quick Start

**🚀 New to the project? Check out [SETUP.md](docs/SETUP.md) for a complete step-by-step guide!**

### One-Command Setup (Recommended)

For first-time setup, run these commands:

```bash
npm install
npm run first-run
```

The setup will:
- **Prompt you** for your Anthropic API key (interactive)
- Create your `.env` file with the API key configured
- Start all Docker containers
- Wait for services to initialize
- Seed the database with sample data
- Display success message with access URLs

Then access the application at:
- **Frontend:** http://localhost:3000
- **Backend API:** http://localhost:3001
- **MinIO Console:** http://localhost:9001

### Available Commands

```bash
npm run setup                    # Interactive setup (prompts for API key)
npm run first-run                # Complete first-time setup
npm run deploy                   # Start all Docker containers
npm run docker:up                # Start all Docker containers
npm run docker:seed              # Seed database with sample data
docker compose up -d --build     # Rebuild containers after code changes
docker compose restart backend   # Restart backend after changes
docker compose restart frontend  # Restart frontend after changes
```

**Note:** Use Docker Desktop to view logs and stop containers.

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 18+ - [Download](https://nodejs.org/)
- **Docker Desktop** - [Download](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)
- **AI Provider** (choose one):
  - **Anthropic API Key** (recommended for development) - [Get API Key](https://console.anthropic.com/)
  - **Google Cloud Service Account** (for sandbox environments) - See [GOOGLE_CLOUD_SETUP.md](GOOGLE_CLOUD_SETUP.md)

### Local Development (without Docker)

1. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   # Frontend dependencies
   npm install
   
   # Backend dependencies
   cd backend && npm install && cd ..
   
   # WebSocket dependencies
   cd websocket && npm install && cd ..
   ```

2. **Start PostgreSQL**
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d postgres
   ```

3. **Run Liquibase migrations**
   ```bash
   docker-compose up liquibase
   ```

4. **Start development servers**
   ```bash
   # Terminal 1: Backend API
   cd backend && npm run dev

   # Terminal 2: Frontend
   npm run dev

   # Terminal 3: WebSocket server
   cd websocket && npm start
   ```

## Project Structure

```
sre-platform/
├── app/                    # Next.js app directory (Frontend UI)
│   ├── page.tsx           # Homepage
│   ├── incidents/         # Incident pages
│   ├── runbooks/          # Runbook pages
│   ├── components/        # React components
│   └── globals.css        # Global styles
├── backend/               # Express.js backend API
│   ├── routes/            # API route handlers
│   │   ├── incidents.js   # Incident endpoints
│   │   ├── runbooks.js    # Runbook endpoints
│   │   ├── users.js       # User endpoints
│   │   └── postmortem.js  # Postmortem endpoints
│   ├── server.js          # Express server
│   ├── package.json       # Backend dependencies
│   ├── Dockerfile         # Backend container
│   └── README.md          # Backend documentation
├── lib/                   # Shared utility functions
├── liquibase/            # Database migrations
│   ├── db.changelog-master.xml
│   └── changesets/
├── websocket/            # WebSocket server
│   ├── server.js
│   └── package.json
├── docker-compose.yml    # Docker orchestration
├── Dockerfile            # Frontend container
└── Dockerfile.websocket  # WebSocket container
```

## Database Schema

The platform uses PostgreSQL with the following main tables:

- `users` - User accounts
- `incidents` - Incident records
- `timeline_events` - Incident activity timeline
- `runbooks` - Service documentation
- `postmortems` - AI-generated postmortems
- `postmortem_embeddings` - Vector embeddings for knowledge graph
- `incident_recommendations` - Cached AI recommendations
- `action_items` - Incident action items

Migrations are managed by Liquibase for version control and consistency.

## Development Workflow

### Stage 0: Foundation ✅
- [x] Next.js project setup
- [x] Tailwind CSS configuration
- [x] Docker Compose setup
- [x] Database schema with Liquibase
- [x] WebSocket server
- [x] Homepage with navigation

### Stage 1: Incident Management (In Progress)
- [ ] Incident creation flow
- [ ] Incident detail page
- [ ] Activity timeline
- [ ] Service referencing

### Stage 2: AI Postmortems
- [ ] Postmortem generation
- [ ] Rich text editor
- [ ] AI proofreading

### Stage 3: Service Runbooks
- [ ] Runbook repository
- [ ] Service documentation

### Stage 4: AI Features
- [ ] Pattern recognition
- [ ] Insights dashboard

## Environment Variables

See `.env.example` for all available configuration options.

Required:
- `DATABASE_URL` - PostgreSQL connection string
- **AI Provider** (choose one):
  - `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` - Anthropic Claude API key for AI features
  - `GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY` - Google Cloud service account JSON for Gemini API (see [GOOGLE_CLOUD_SETUP.md](GOOGLE_CLOUD_SETUP.md))

Optional:
- `WEBSOCKET_URL` - WebSocket server URL
- `MINIO_*` - MinIO configuration

## AI Provider Configuration

The platform supports two AI providers:

1. **Anthropic Claude** (default) - Best for development
   - Set `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` in your `.env` file
   - Get your API key from [Anthropic Console](https://console.anthropic.com/)

2. **Google Gemini** - Best for sandbox environments with service accounts
   - Set `GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY` in your `.env` file
   - See [GOOGLE_CLOUD_SETUP.md](GOOGLE_CLOUD_SETUP.md) for detailed setup instructions

The system automatically selects the provider based on which credentials are available. If both are set, Anthropic takes priority.

## AI Knowledge Graph (NEW! 🎉)

The platform now includes an **AI-powered knowledge graph** that provides intelligent recommendations during incident investigation:

### Features
- 🔍 **Vector Similarity Search** - Finds similar past incidents using Vertex AI embeddings
- 🤖 **AI Recommendations** - Gemini generates contextualized suggestions based on similar incidents
- 🔄 **Auto-Refresh** - Recommendations update every 15 minutes as the incident evolves
- 📊 **Similarity Scoring** - See how similar each recommendation is (0-100%)
- 🔗 **Direct Links** - Navigate to referenced incidents with one click

### Quick Setup

1. **Enable GCP APIs** and create service account (see [Quick Start Guide](docs/KNOWLEDGE_GRAPH_QUICK_START.md))
2. **Run setup** - `npm run first-run` will create the file and prompt you to paste your JSON
3. **Start the application** - Knowledge graph features activate automatically!

### Documentation
- 📖 [Quick Start Guide](docs/KNOWLEDGE_GRAPH_QUICK_START.md) - 5-minute setup
- 📚 [Complete Setup Guide](docs/KNOWLEDGE_GRAPH_SETUP.md) - Full documentation

### How It Works

**When postmortems are published:**
1. System extracts key data (symptoms, root cause, resolution)
2. Generates embeddings using Vertex AI
3. Stores in vector database for fast retrieval

**When investigating incidents:**
1. System generates embedding of current incident state
2. Performs vector similarity search against published postmortems
3. Gemini AI analyzes similar incidents and generates recommendations
4. Displays actionable suggestions with similarity scores

**Example Recommendation:**
```
INC-12345 - Payment API Timeout (87% match)
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Based on INC-12345, a sudden loss of connection in the
payments API was caused by an unannounced network switch
reset. You might want to try:

• Verify database connection pool settings
• Check for long-running queries
• Review connection timeout configuration
```

## Contributing

This is a hackathon project. Contributions welcome!

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: add platform improvements for reliability, logging, and developer experience
- Add structured logging system (backend/utils/logger.js)
  * Replace console.log with proper log levels (DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR)
  * Include context and timestamps
  * Performance timing helpers
  * Configurable via LOG_LEVEL env var

- Add environment variable validation (backend/utils/validateEnv.js)
  * Validate required DATABASE_URL on startup
  * Warn about missing optional configuration
  * Fail fast with clear error messages

- Add Docker health checks for all services
  * Backend: HTTP health endpoint monitoring
  * Frontend: Next.js availability check
  * WebSocket: Socket.io server check
  * Enables automatic recovery and better orchestration

- Add backend health tests (backend/tests/health.test.js)
  * Test critical API endpoints
  * Run with: cd backend && npm test
  * Foundation for expanded test coverage

- Add comprehensive documentation
  * backend/API.md - Complete API reference with examples
  * CONTRIBUTING.md - Development workflows and guidelines
  * IMPROVEMENTS.md - Track platform enhancements

- Add .nvmrc for Node version consistency (18.18.0)
  * Eliminates version-related issues across environments

- Add .dockerignore files for faster builds
  * Reduces Docker image size
  * Excludes unnecessary files from builds

- Add .gitattributes for consistent line endings
  * Prevents cross-platform line ending issues

- Update README.md with new features and docs links

README.md, after:

# SRE Platform - AI-Powered Incident Management

An incident.io and rootly.ai-inspired platform for incident management, AI-powered postmortems, and service runbooks.

## Features

- 🚨 **Incident Management** - Declare, track, and resolve incidents with real-time collaboration
- 🤖 **AI-Powered Postmortems** - Automatically generate comprehensive postmortems from incident data
- 🧠 **AI Knowledge Graph** - Get intelligent recommendations based on similar past incidents using Vertex AI embeddings
- 📚 **Service Runbooks** - Centralized repository of service documentation and troubleshooting procedures
- ⚡ **Real-time Updates** - WebSocket-powered live updates for incident timelines
- 🐳 **Fully Containerized** - All components run in Docker containers
- 🏥 **Health Monitoring** - Built-in health checks for all services with automatic recovery
- 📊 **Structured Logging** - Professional logging system with configurable log levels

## Architecture

The platform uses a **microservices architecture** with separate frontend and backend containers:

- **Frontend:** Next.js 14+ with TypeScript and Tailwind CSS (port 3000)
- **Backend API:** Express.js REST API (port 3001)
- **Database:** PostgreSQL (Alpine-based, port 5432)
- **Migrations:** Liquibase for version-controlled schema management
- **Real-time:** Socket.io WebSocket server (port 4000)
- **Storage:** MinIO (S3-compatible, optional, ports 9000/9001)
- **AI:** Anthropic Claude or Google Gemini for postmortem generation and analysis

## Quick Start

**🚀 New to the project? Check out [SETUP.md](docs/SETUP.md) for a complete step-by-step guide!**

### One-Command Setup (Recommended)

For first-time setup, run these commands:

```bash
npm install
npm run first-run
```

The setup will:
- **Prompt you** for your Anthropic API key (interactive)
- Create your `.env` file with the API key configured
- Start all Docker containers
- Wait for services to initialize
- Seed the database with sample data
- Display success message with access URLs

Then access the application at:
- **Frontend:** http://localhost:3000
- **Backend API:** http://localhost:3001
- **MinIO Console:** http://localhost:9001

### Available Commands

```bash
npm run setup                    # Interactive setup (prompts for API key)
npm run first-run                # Complete first-time setup
npm run deploy                   # Start all Docker containers
npm run docker:up                # Start all Docker containers
npm run docker:seed              # Seed database with sample data
docker compose up -d --build     # Rebuild containers after code changes
docker compose restart backend   # Restart backend after changes
docker compose restart frontend  # Restart frontend after changes
```

**Note:** Use Docker Desktop to view logs and stop containers. All services include health checks for monitoring.

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 18+ - [Download](https://nodejs.org/)
- **Docker Desktop** - [Download](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)
- **AI Provider** (choose one):
  - **Anthropic API Key** (recommended for development) - [Get API Key](https://console.anthropic.com/)
  - **Google Cloud Service Account** (for sandbox environments) - See [GOOGLE_CLOUD_SETUP.md](GOOGLE_CLOUD_SETUP.md)

### Local Development (without Docker)

1. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   # Frontend dependencies
   npm install
   
   # Backend dependencies
   cd backend && npm install && cd ..
   
   # WebSocket dependencies
   cd websocket && npm install && cd ..
   ```

2. **Start PostgreSQL**
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d postgres
   ```

3. **Run Liquibase migrations**
   ```bash
   docker-compose up liquibase
   ```

4. **Start development servers**
   ```bash
   # Terminal 1: Backend API
   cd backend && npm run dev

   # Terminal 2: Frontend
   npm run dev

   # Terminal 3: WebSocket server
   cd websocket && npm start
   ```

## Project Structure

```
sre-platform/
├── app/                    # Next.js app directory (Frontend UI)
│   ├── page.tsx           # Homepage
│   ├── incidents/         # Incident pages
│   ├── runbooks/          # Runbook pages
│   ├── components/        # React components
│   └── globals.css        # Global styles
├── backend/               # Express.js backend API
│   ├── routes/            # API route handlers
│   │   ├── incidents.js   # Incident endpoints
│   │   ├── runbooks.js    # Runbook endpoints
│   │   ├── users.js       # User endpoints
│   │   └── postmortem.js  # Postmortem endpoints
│   ├── server.js          # Express server
│   ├── package.json       # Backend dependencies
│   ├── Dockerfile         # Backend container
│   └── README.md          # Backend documentation
├── lib/                   # Shared utility functions
├── liquibase/            # Database migrations
│   ├── db.changelog-master.xml
│   └── changesets/
├── websocket/            # WebSocket server
│   ├── server.js
│   └── package.json
├── docker-compose.yml    # Docker orchestration
├── Dockerfile            # Frontend container
└── Dockerfile.websocket  # WebSocket container
```

## Database Schema

The platform uses PostgreSQL with the following main tables:

- `users` - User accounts
- `incidents` - Incident records
- `timeline_events` - Incident activity timeline
- `runbooks` - Service documentation
- `postmortems` - AI-generated postmortems
- `postmortem_embeddings` - Vector embeddings for knowledge graph
- `incident_recommendations` - Cached AI recommendations
- `action_items` - Incident action items

Migrations are managed by Liquibase for version control and consistency.

## Development Workflow

### Stage 0: Foundation ✅
- [x] Next.js project setup
- [x] Tailwind CSS configuration
- [x] Docker Compose setup
- [x] Database schema with Liquibase
- [x] WebSocket server
- [x] Homepage with navigation

### Stage 1: Incident Management (In Progress)
- [ ] Incident creation flow
- [ ] Incident detail page
- [ ] Activity timeline
- [ ] Service referencing

### Stage 2: AI Postmortems
- [ ] Postmortem generation
- [ ] Rich text editor
- [ ] AI proofreading

### Stage 3: Service Runbooks
- [ ] Runbook repository
- [ ] Service documentation

### Stage 4: AI Features
- [ ] Pattern recognition
- [ ] Insights dashboard

## Environment Variables

See `.env.example` for all available configuration options.

Required:
- `DATABASE_URL` - PostgreSQL connection string
- **AI Provider** (choose one):
  - `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` - Anthropic Claude API key for AI features
  - `GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY` - Google Cloud service account JSON for Gemini API (see [GOOGLE_CLOUD_SETUP.md](GOOGLE_CLOUD_SETUP.md))

Optional:
- `WEBSOCKET_URL` - WebSocket server URL
- `MINIO_*` - MinIO configuration

## AI Provider Configuration

The platform supports two AI providers:

1. **Anthropic Claude** (default) - Best for development
   - Set `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` in your `.env` file
   - Get your API key from [Anthropic Console](https://console.anthropic.com/)

2. **Google Gemini** - Best for sandbox environments with service accounts
   - Set `GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY` in your `.env` file
   - See [GOOGLE_CLOUD_SETUP.md](GOOGLE_CLOUD_SETUP.md) for detailed setup instructions

The system automatically selects the provider based on which credentials are available. If both are set, Anthropic takes priority.

## AI Knowledge Graph (NEW! 🎉)

The platform now includes an **AI-powered knowledge graph** that provides intelligent recommendations during incident investigation:

### Features
- 🔍 **Vector Similarity Search** - Finds similar past incidents using Vertex AI embeddings
- 🤖 **AI Recommendations** - Gemini generates contextualized suggestions based on similar incidents
- 🔄 **Auto-Refresh** - Recommendations update every 15 minutes as the incident evolves
- 📊 **Similarity Scoring** - See how similar each recommendation is (0-100%)
- 🔗 **Direct Links** - Navigate to referenced incidents with one click

### Quick Setup

1. **Enable GCP APIs** and create service account (see [Quick Start Guide](docs/KNOWLEDGE_GRAPH_QUICK_START.md))
2. **Run setup** - `npm run first-run` will create the file and prompt you to paste your JSON
3. **Start the application** - Knowledge graph features activate automatically!

### Documentation
- 📖 [Quick Start Guide](docs/KNOWLEDGE_GRAPH_QUICK_START.md) - 5-minute setup
- 📚 [Complete Setup Guide](docs/KNOWLEDGE_GRAPH_SETUP.md) - Full documentation

### How It Works

**When postmortems are published:**
1. System extracts key data (symptoms, root cause, resolution)
2. Generates embeddings using Vertex AI
3. Stores in vector database for fast retrieval

**When investigating incidents:**
1. System generates embedding of current incident state
2. Performs vector similarity search against published postmortems
3. Gemini AI analyzes similar incidents and generates recommendations
4. Displays actionable suggestions with similarity scores

**Example Recommendation:**
```
INC-12345 - Payment API Timeout (87% match)
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Based on INC-12345, a sudden loss of connection in the
payments API was caused by an unannounced network switch
reset. You might want to try:

• Verify database connection pool settings
• Check for long-running queries
• Review connection timeout configuration
```

## Documentation

- 📖 [Setup Guide](docs/SETUP.md) - Complete setup instructions
- 🔌 [API Documentation](backend/API.md) - Backend API reference
- 🤝 [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) - How to contribute
- 📝 [Knowledge Graph Setup](docs/KNOWLEDGE_GRAPH_QUICK_START.md) - AI features setup
- ⚡ [Recent Improvements](IMPROVEMENTS.md) - Latest platform enhancements

## Contributing

This is a hackathon project. Contributions welcome! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

## License

MIT
